abcm/ABCM.md, before:

# ABCM - Actor Byte-Code Machine

The **Actor Byte-Code Machine** is a byte-code interpreter for Actor programs.

An actor program is a sequence of _Actions_:
```javascript
// Actions
    { "kind":"actor_send", "message":<dictionary>, "actor":<address> }
    { "kind":"actor_become", "behavior":<behavior> }
    { "kind":"actor_ignore" }
    { "kind":"actor_assign", "name":<string>, "value":<expression> }
    { "kind":"actor_fail", "error":<expression> }
```

Typed expressions include:
```javascript
// Address Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_create", "state":<dictionary>, "behavior":<behavior> }
    { "kind":"actor_self" }
// Behavior Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_behavior", "name":<string>, "script":[<action>, ...] }
// Value Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_state", "name":<string> }
    { "kind":"dict_get", "name":<string>, "in":<dictionary> }
    { "kind":"expr_literal", "const":<value> }
    { "kind":"expr_operation", "name":<string>, "args":[<expression>, ...] }
// Boolean Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_has_state", "name":<string> }
    { "kind":"dict_has", "name":<string>, "in":<dictionary> }
// Dictionary Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_message" }
    { "kind":"dict_empty" }
    { "kind":"dict_bind", "name":<string>, "value":<expression>, "with":<dictionary> }
```

## Binary Octet-Stream Encoding

For more-efficient network transmission, we propose an octet-stream encoding which is isomorphic to JSON.

There are six types of abstract data values representable in JSON:
 * Null
 * Boolean
 * Number
 * String
 * Array
 * Object

A small set of special values are encoded directly in a single octet:

encoding     | hex | value
-------------|-----|----------------
`2#00000000` |`00` | `false`
`2#00000001` |`01` | `true`
`2#00000010` |`02` | `[]`
`2#00000011` |`03` | `{}`
`2#00001111` |`0F` | `""`
`2#10000000` |`80` | `0`
`2#11111111` |`FF` | `null`

Small integer values (from `-64` through `126`) are also encoded in a single octet:

encoding     | hex | value
-------------|-----|----------------
`2#01nnnnnn` |`40`..`7F`| -Int [-64..-1]
`2#1nnnnnnn` |`80`..`FE`| +Int [0..126]

The encoding of `0` falls naturally within this range. Negative integers are represented in 2's-complement format (all-bits-set = `-1`).

Extended values (Number, String, Array, and Object) occupy more than one octet:

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000100` |`04` | `[`...`]`      | size::Number ::Value\*
`2#00000101` |`05` | `{`...`}`      | size::Number (name::String ::Value)\*
`2#00000110` |`06` | `[` _count_ `]`      | size::Number count::Number ::Value\*n
`2#00000111` |`07` | `{` _count_ `}`      | size::Number count::Number (name::String ::Value)\*n
`2#00001000` |`08` | Octet\*        | size::Number bytes::Octet\*
`2#00001001` |`09` | * Memo#        | index::Octet
`2#0000101m` |`0A`..`0B`| UTF-8          | size::Number chars::Octet\*
`2#0000110m` |`0C`..`0D`| UTF-16         | size::Number (hi::Octet lo::Octet)\*
`2#00001110` |`0E` | encoded        | size::Number name::String data::Octet\*
`2#0001sppp` |`10`..`1F`| Int+pad        | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#001usppp` |`20`..`3F`| Unum+pad       | size::Number exp::Number int::Octet\*

Extended values (except memo refs) contain a _size_ indicating how many octets the value occupies (how many to skip if the value is ignored) after the size.

### Number

An extended Number may be an Integer (`2#0001sppp`) or [Unum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unum_(number_format)) (`2#001usppp`). The _s_ field is the sign (`0` for positive, `1` for negative). The _u_ field, if present, is uncertainty (`0` for exact, `1` for range). The _ppp_ field is the number of padding bits added to the MSB (`0` through `7`). Padding bits match the sign.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00010ppp` |`10`..`17`| +Int &pad      | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#00011ppp` |`18`..`1F`| -Int &pad      | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#00100ppp` |`20`..`27`| exact +Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00101ppp` |`28`..`2F`| exact -Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00110ppp` |`30`..`37`| range +Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00111ppp` |`38`..`3F`| range -Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#01nnnnnn` |`40`..`7F`| -Int [-64..-1] | -
`2#1nnnnnnn` |`80`..`FE`| +Int [0..126]  | -

The octets of the _int_ or _bits_ portion are stored LSB first, with the MSB padded as described above. Negative _int_ values are represented in 2's-complement format (all-bits-set = `-1`). Unums are stored in sign-magnitude format with padding bits matching the sign. The _exp_ field defines the number of bits designated for the exponent (from the MSB). The remaining bits are designated for the significand.

#### IEEE 754 Floating Point (recommendation)

A 64-bit "double-precision" [IEEE 754 floating point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754-1985) value can be encoded without changing any of the bits in the 8-byte standard LSB-first representation. The first octet is `2#0010s001` where _s_ is a copy of the sign bit. The second octet is `2#10001001` indicating there are 9 bytes following. The third octet is `2#10001011` indicating 11 bits of exponent. The fourth through eleventh octets are the 8-byte standard representation, LSB first: `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffeeee` `2#seeeeeee` (52-bit fraction _f_, 11-bit exponent _e_, 1-bit sign _s_).

### String

An extended String begins with `2#00001eem` where _ee_ indicates encoding, and _m_ indicates memoization.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00001000` |`08` | Octet\*        | size::Number bytes::Octet\*
`2#00001001` |`09` | * Memo#        | index::Octet
`2#0000101m` |`0A`..`0B`| UTF-8          | size::Number chars::Octet\*
`2#0000110m` |`0C`..`0D`| UTF-16         | size::Number (hi::Octet lo::Octet)\*
`2#00001110` |`0E` | encoded        | size::Number name::String data::Octet\*
`2#00001111` |`0F` | `""`           | -

Next is the _size_ of the value in octets, as defined above. Unless this is a memoized string reference (`2#00001001`), in which case the next octet is an _index_ into the memoization table. The memoization table is treated as a ring-buffer, starting at `0` for each top-level Value in a stream. Memoized strings are often used for Object property names. For UTF-8 and UTF-16 values, when the _m_-bit is `1` an entry is stored at the current memo index and the index is incremented, wrapping around from `2#11111111` back to `2#00000000`. If _eem_ is `2#110`, the _size_ is followed by a String that names the encoding. A decoder will reject an encoding it does not recognize. If _ee_ is `2#10` the string value consists of octet-pairs, encoding 16-bit values MSB-first (per [RFC 2781](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2781)). A UTF-16 encoded string value may begin with a byte-order-mark (included in the _size_, of course, but not in the string value) to signal MSB-first (`16#FEFF`) or LSB-first (`16#FFFE`) ordering of octets.

#### Capability (recommendation)

In applications that require the transmission of [_capabilities_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capability-based_security), a String may be used to represent capabilities in transit. This requires some way to distinguish these capabilities from normal Strings. Our recommendation is to mark each String with a distinguishing prefix. For normal Strings, a [byte-order-mark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) is a safe choice. For capability Strings, a [data-link-escape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C0_and_C1_control_codes) (which is `2#00010000`, or `^P` in ASCII) can provide the desired semantics, interpreting the rest of the String as binary-octet data.

### Array

An extended Array may (`2#00000110`), or may not (`2#00000100`), specify an element _count_. However, a _size_ in octets is always provided for non-empty Arrays.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000010` |`02` | `[]`           | -
`2#00000100` |`04` | `[`...`]`      | size::Number ::Value\*
`2#00000110` |`06` | `[` _count_ `]`      | size::Number count::Number ::Value\*n

The end of the array is reached when then specified number of octets have been consumed, which should corresponding to decoding the matching count of elements (if specified). A decoder may reject a mismatch.

### Object

An extended Object may (`2#00000111`), or may not (`2#00000101`), specify a property _count_. However, a _size_ in octets is always provided for non-empty Objects.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000011` |`03` | `{}`           | -
`2#00000101` |`05` | `{`...`}`      | size::Number (name::String ::Value)\*
`2#00000111` |`07` | `{` _count_ `}`      | size::Number count::Number (name::String ::Value)\*n

Properties are encoded as a String (property name) followed by an encoded Value. Note that the property name strings may be memoized, reducing the octet-size of the object. The end of the object is reached when then specified number of octets have been consumed, which should corresponding to decoding the matching count of properties (if specified). A decoder may reject a mismatch.

### Encoding Matrix

The following table summarizes the meaning of the first octet in a Value:

Hi \ Lo   | `2#_000` | `2#_001` | `2#_010` | `2#_011` | `2#_100` | `2#_101` | `2#_110` | `2#_111`
----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------
`2#00000_`| `false`  | `true`   | `[]`     | `{}`     |`[`...`]` |`{`...`}` |`[` _n_ `]`|`{` _n_ `}`
`2#00001_`| octets   | * memo#  | UTF-8    | UTF-8*   | UTF-16   | UTF-16*  | encoded  | `""`
`2#00010_`| +Int &0  | +Int &1  | +Int &2  | +Int &3  | +Int &4  | +Int &5  | +Int &6  | +Int &7
`2#00011_`| -Int &0  | -Int &1  | -Int &2  | -Int &3  | -Int &4  | -Int &5  | -Int &6  | -Int &7
`2#00100_`| +Flt &0  | +Flt &1  | +Flt &2  | +Flt &3  | +Flt &4  | +Flt &5  | +Flt &6  | +Flt &7
`2#00101_`| -Flt &0  | -Flt &1  | -Flt &2  | -Flt &3  | -Flt &4  | -Flt &5  | -Flt &6  | -Flt &7
`2#00110_`| +Rng &0  | +Rng &1  | +Rng &2  | +Rng &3  | +Rng &4  | +Rng &5  | +Rng &6  | +Rng &7
`2#00111_`| -Rng &0  | -Rng &1  | -Rng &2  | -Rng &3  | -Rng &4  | -Rng &5  | -Rng &6  | -Rng &7
`2#01000_`| `-64`    | `-63`    | `-62`    | `-61`    | `-60`    | `-59`    | `-58`    | `-57`
`2#01001_`| `-56`    | `-55`    | `-54`    | `-53`    | `-52`    | `-51`    | `-50`    | `-49`
`2#01010_`| `-48`    | `-47`    | `-46`    | `-45`    | `-44`    | `-43`    | `-42`    | `-41`
`2#01011_`| `-40`    | `-39`    | `-38`    | `-37`    | `-36`    | `-35`    | `-34`    | `-33`
`2#01100_`| `-32`    | `-31`    | `-30`    | `-29`    | `-28`    | `-27`    | `-26`    | `-25`
`2#01101_`| `-24`    | `-23`    | `-22`    | `-21`    | `-20`    | `-19`    | `-18`    | `-17`
`2#01110_`| `-16`    | `-15`    | `-14`    | `-13`    | `-12`    | `-11`    | `-10`    | `-9`
`2#01111_`| `-8`     | `-7`     | `-6`     | `-5`     | `-4`     | `-3`     | `-2`     | `-1`
`2#10000_`| `0`      | `1`      | `2`      | `3`      | `4`      | `5`      | `6`      | `7`
`2#10001_`| `8`      | `9`      | `10`     | `11`     | `12`     | `13`     | `14`     | `15`
`2#10010_`| `16`     | `17`     | `18`     | `19`     | `20`     | `21`     | `22`     | `23`
`2#10011_`| `24`     | `25`     | `26`     | `27`     | `28`     | `29`     | `30`     | `31`
`2#10100_`| `32`     | `33`     | `34`     | `35`     | `36`     | `37`     | `38`     | `39`
`2#10101_`| `40`     | `41`     | `42`     | `43`     | `44`     | `45`     | `46`     | `47`
`2#10110_`| `48`     | `49`     | `50`     | `51`     | `52`     | `53`     | `54`     | `55`
`2#10111_`| `56`     | `57`     | `58`     | `59`     | `60`     | `61`     | `62`     | `63`
`2#11000_`| `64`     | `65`     | `66`     | `67`     | `68`     | `69`     | `70`     | `71`
`2#11001_`| `72`     | `73`     | `74`     | `75`     | `76`     | `77`     | `78`     | `79`
`2#11010_`| `80`     | `81`     | `82`     | `83`     | `84`     | `85`     | `86`     | `87`
`2#11011_`| `88`     | `89`     | `90`     | `91`     | `92`     | `93`     | `94`     | `95`
`2#11100_`| `96`     | `97`     | `98`     | `99`     | `100`    | `101`    | `102`    | `103`
`2#11101_`| `104`    | `105`    | `106`    | `107`    | `108`    | `109`    | `110`    | `111`
`2#11110_`| `112`    | `113`    | `114`    | `115`    | `116`    | `117`    | `118`    | `119`
`2#11111_`| `120`    | `121`    | `122`    | `123`    | `124`    | `125`    | `126`    | `null`

Commit message:

split out Binary Octet-Stream Encoding

abcm/ABCM.md, after:

# ABCM - Actor Byte-Code Machine

The **Actor Byte-Code Machine** is a byte-code interpreter for Actor programs.
Programs are stored and executed directly from Binary Octet-Stream Encoding representation (isomorphic to JSON).

An actor program is a sequence of _Actions_:
```javascript
// Actions
    { "kind":"actor_send", "message":<dictionary>, "actor":<address> }
    { "kind":"actor_become", "behavior":<behavior> }
    { "kind":"actor_ignore" }
    { "kind":"actor_assign", "name":<string>, "value":<expression> }
    { "kind":"actor_fail", "error":<expression> }
```

Typed expressions include:
```javascript
// Address Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_create", "state":<dictionary>, "behavior":<behavior> }
    { "kind":"actor_self" }
// Behavior Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_behavior", "name":<string>, "script":[<action>, ...] }
// Value Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_state", "name":<string> }
    { "kind":"dict_get", "name":<string>, "in":<dictionary> }
    { "kind":"expr_literal", "const":<value> }
    { "kind":"expr_operation", "name":<string>, "args":[<expression>, ...] }
// Boolean Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_has_state", "name":<string> }
    { "kind":"dict_has", "name":<string>, "in":<dictionary> }
// Dictionary Expressions
    { "kind":"actor_message" }
    { "kind":"dict_empty" }
    { "kind":"dict_bind", "name":<string>, "value":<expression>, "with":<dictionary> }
```

## Binary Octet-Stream Encoding

For more-efficient network transmission, we propose an octet-stream encoding which is isomorphic to JSON.
As with ASCII text, there are multiple ways to encode the same abstract JSON value.
All valid encodings produce valid equivalent JSON values, although some representation details are lost.
Every valid JSON value can be represented in Binary Octet-Stream Encoding.
As far as possible, values may be round-tripped without loss of information.
Floating-point values are problematic, even in JSON, due to translation between base-10 and base-2.
Binary Octet-Stream Encoding, by itself, is **not** lossy, since values remain in base-2 representation.

There are six types of abstract data values representable in JSON:
 * Null
 * Boolean
 * Number
 * String
 * Array
 * Object

A small set of special values are encoded directly in a single octet:

encoding     | hex | value
-------------|-----|----------------
`2#00000000` |`00` | `false`
`2#00000001` |`01` | `true`
`2#00000010` |`02` | `[]`
`2#00000011` |`03` | `{}`
`2#00001111` |`0F` | `""`
`2#10000000` |`80` | `0`
`2#11111111` |`FF` | `null`

Small integer values (from `-64` through `126`) are also encoded in a single octet:

encoding     | hex | value
-------------|-----|----------------
`2#01nnnnnn` |`40`..`7F`| -Int [-64..-1]
`2#1nnnnnnn` |`80`..`FE`| +Int [0..126]

The encoding of `0` falls naturally within this range. Negative integers are represented in 2's-complement format (all-bits-set = `-1`).

Extended values (Number, String, Array, and Object) occupy more than one octet:

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000100` |`04` | `[`...`]`      | size::Number ::Value\*
`2#00000101` |`05` | `{`...`}`      | size::Number (name::String ::Value)\*
`2#00000110` |`06` | `[` _count_ `]`      | size::Number count::Number ::Value\*n
`2#00000111` |`07` | `{` _count_ `}`      | size::Number count::Number (name::String ::Value)\*n
`2#00001000` |`08` | Octet\*        | size::Number bytes::Octet\*
`2#00001001` |`09` | * Memo#        | index::Octet
`2#0000101m` |`0A`..`0B`| UTF-8          | size::Number chars::Octet\*
`2#0000110m` |`0C`..`0D`| UTF-16         | size::Number (hi::Octet lo::Octet)\*
`2#00001110` |`0E` | encoded        | size::Number name::String data::Octet\*
`2#0001sppp` |`10`..`1F`| Int+pad        | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#001usppp` |`20`..`3F`| Unum+pad       | size::Number exp::Number int::Octet\*

Extended values (except memo refs) contain a _size_ indicating how many octets the value occupies (how many to skip if the value is ignored) after the size.

### Number

An extended Number may be an Integer (`2#0001sppp`) or [Unum](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unum_(number_format)) (`2#001usppp`). The _s_ field is the sign (`0` for positive, `1` for negative). The _u_ field, if present, is uncertainty (`0` for exact, `1` for range). The _ppp_ field is the number of padding bits added to the MSB (`0` through `7`). Padding bits match the sign.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00010ppp` |`10`..`17`| +Int &pad      | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#00011ppp` |`18`..`1F`| -Int &pad      | size::Number int::Octet\*
`2#00100ppp` |`20`..`27`| exact +Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00101ppp` |`28`..`2F`| exact -Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00110ppp` |`30`..`37`| range +Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#00111ppp` |`38`..`3F`| range -Unum &pad  | size::Number exp::Number bits::Octet\*
`2#01nnnnnn` |`40`..`7F`| -Int [-64..-1] | -
`2#1nnnnnnn` |`80`..`FE`| +Int [0..126]  | -

The octets of the _int_ or _bits_ portion are stored LSB first, with the MSB padded as described above. Negative _int_ values are represented in 2's-complement format (all-bits-set = `-1`). Unums are stored in sign-magnitude format with padding bits matching the sign. The _exp_ field defines the number of bits designated for the exponent (from the MSB). The remaining bits are designated for the significand.

#### IEEE 754 Floating Point (recommendation)

A 64-bit "double-precision" [IEEE 754 floating point](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_754-1985) value can be encoded without changing any of the bits in the 8-byte standard LSB-first representation. The first octet is `2#0010s001` where _s_ is a copy of the sign bit. The second octet is `2#10001001` indicating there are 9 bytes following. The third octet is `2#10001011` indicating 11 bits of exponent. The fourth through eleventh octets are the 8-byte standard representation, LSB first: `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffffff` `2#ffffeeee` `2#seeeeeee` (52-bit fraction _f_, 11-bit exponent _e_, 1-bit sign _s_).

### String

An extended String begins with `2#00001eem` where _ee_ indicates encoding, and _m_ indicates memoization.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00001000` |`08` | Octet\*        | size::Number bytes::Octet\*
`2#00001001` |`09` | * Memo#        | index::Octet
`2#0000101m` |`0A`..`0B`| UTF-8          | size::Number chars::Octet\*
`2#0000110m` |`0C`..`0D`| UTF-16         | size::Number (hi::Octet lo::Octet)\*
`2#00001110` |`0E` | encoded        | size::Number name::String data::Octet\*
`2#00001111` |`0F` | `""`           | -

Next is the _size_ of the value in octets, as defined above. Unless this is a memoized string reference (`2#00001001`), in which case the next octet is an _index_ into the memoization table. The memoization table is treated as a ring-buffer, starting at `0` for each top-level Value in a stream. Memoized strings are often used for Object property names. For UTF-8 and UTF-16 values, when the _m_-bit is `1` an entry is stored at the current memo index and the index is incremented, wrapping around from `2#11111111` back to `2#00000000`. If _eem_ is `2#110`, the _size_ is followed by a String that names the encoding. A decoder will reject an encoding it does not recognize. If _ee_ is `2#10` the string value consists of octet-pairs, encoding 16-bit values MSB-first (per [RFC 2781](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2781)). A UTF-16 encoded string value may begin with a byte-order-mark (included in the _size_, of course, but not in the string value) to signal MSB-first (`16#FEFF`) or LSB-first (`16#FFFE`) ordering of octets.

#### Capability (recommendation)

In applications that require the transmission of [_capabilities_](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Capability-based_security), a String may be used to represent capabilities in transit. This requires some way to distinguish these capabilities from normal Strings. Our recommendation is to mark each String with a distinguishing prefix. For normal Strings, a [byte-order-mark](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Byte_order_mark) is a safe choice. For capability Strings, a [data-link-escape](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/C0_and_C1_control_codes) (which is `2#00010000`, or `^P` in ASCII) can provide the desired semantics, interpreting the rest of the String as binary-octet data.

### Array

An extended Array may (`2#00000110`), or may not (`2#00000100`), specify an element _count_. However, a _size_ in octets is always provided for non-empty Arrays.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000010` |`02` | `[]`           | -
`2#00000100` |`04` | `[`...`]`      | size::Number ::Value\*
`2#00000110` |`06` | `[` _count_ `]`      | size::Number count::Number ::Value\*n

The end of the array is reached when then specified number of octets have been consumed, which should corresponding to decoding the matching count of elements (if specified). A decoder may reject a mismatch.

### Object

An extended Object may (`2#00000111`), or may not (`2#00000101`), specify a property _count_. However, a _size_ in octets is always provided for non-empty Objects.

encoding     | hex | value          | extension
-------------|-----|----------------|------------
`2#00000011` |`03` | `{}`           | -
`2#00000101` |`05` | `{`...`}`      | size::Number (name::String ::Value)\*
`2#00000111` |`07` | `{` _count_ `}`      | size::Number count::Number (name::String ::Value)\*n

Properties are encoded as a String (property name) followed by an encoded Value. Note that the property name strings may be memoized, reducing the octet-size of the object. The end of the object is reached when then specified number of octets have been consumed, which should corresponding to decoding the matching count of properties (if specified). A decoder may reject a mismatch.

### Encoding Matrix

The following table summarizes the meaning of the first octet in a Value:

Hi \ Lo   | `2#_000` | `2#_001` | `2#_010` | `2#_011` | `2#_100` | `2#_101` | `2#_110` | `2#_111`
----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------|----------
`2#00000_`| `false`  | `true`   | `[]`     | `{}`     |`[`...`]` |`{`...`}` |`[` _n_ `]`|`{` _n_ `}`
`2#00001_`| octets   | * memo#  | UTF-8    | UTF-8*   | UTF-16   | UTF-16*  | encoded  | `""`
`2#00010_`| +Int &0  | +Int &1  | +Int &2  | +Int &3  | +Int &4  | +Int &5  | +Int &6  | +Int &7
`2#00011_`| -Int &0  | -Int &1  | -Int &2  | -Int &3  | -Int &4  | -Int &5  | -Int &6  | -Int &7
`2#00100_`| +Flt &0  | +Flt &1  | +Flt &2  | +Flt &3  | +Flt &4  | +Flt &5  | +Flt &6  | +Flt &7
`2#00101_`| -Flt &0  | -Flt &1  | -Flt &2  | -Flt &3  | -Flt &4  | -Flt &5  | -Flt &6  | -Flt &7
`2#00110_`| +Rng &0  | +Rng &1  | +Rng &2  | +Rng &3  | +Rng &4  | +Rng &5  | +Rng &6  | +Rng &7
`2#00111_`| -Rng &0  | -Rng &1  | -Rng &2  | -Rng &3  | -Rng &4  | -Rng &5  | -Rng &6  | -Rng &7
`2#01000_`| `-64`    | `-63`    | `-62`    | `-61`    | `-60`    | `-59`    | `-58`    | `-57`
`2#01001_`| `-56`    | `-55`    | `-54`    | `-53`    | `-52`    | `-51`    | `-50`    | `-49`
`2#01010_`| `-48`    | `-47`    | `-46`    | `-45`    | `-44`    | `-43`    | `-42`    | `-41`
`2#01011_`| `-40`    | `-39`    | `-38`    | `-37`    | `-36`    | `-35`    | `-34`    | `-33`
`2#01100_`| `-32`    | `-31`    | `-30`    | `-29`    | `-28`    | `-27`    | `-26`    | `-25`
`2#01101_`| `-24`    | `-23`    | `-22`    | `-21`    | `-20`    | `-19`    | `-18`    | `-17`
`2#01110_`| `-16`    | `-15`    | `-14`    | `-13`    | `-12`    | `-11`    | `-10`    | `-9`
`2#01111_`| `-8`     | `-7`     | `-6`     | `-5`     | `-4`     | `-3`     | `-2`     | `-1`
`2#10000_`| `0`      | `1`      | `2`      | `3`      | `4`      | `5`      | `6`      | `7`
`2#10001_`| `8`      | `9`      | `10`     | `11`     | `12`     | `13`     | `14`     | `15`
`2#10010_`| `16`     | `17`     | `18`     | `19`     | `20`     | `21`     | `22`     | `23`
`2#10011_`| `24`     | `25`     | `26`     | `27`     | `28`     | `29`     | `30`     | `31`
`2#10100_`| `32`     | `33`     | `34`     | `35`     | `36`     | `37`     | `38`     | `39`
`2#10101_`| `40`     | `41`     | `42`     | `43`     | `44`     | `45`     | `46`     | `47`
`2#10110_`| `48`     | `49`     | `50`     | `51`     | `52`     | `53`     | `54`     | `55`
`2#10111_`| `56`     | `57`     | `58`     | `59`     | `60`     | `61`     | `62`     | `63`
`2#11000_`| `64`     | `65`     | `66`     | `67`     | `68`     | `69`     | `70`     | `71`
`2#11001_`| `72`     | `73`     | `74`     | `75`     | `76`     | `77`     | `78`     | `79`
`2#11010_`| `80`     | `81`     | `82`     | `83`     | `84`     | `85`     | `86`     | `87`
`2#11011_`| `88`     | `89`     | `90`     | `91`     | `92`     | `93`     | `94`     | `95`
`2#11100_`| `96`     | `97`     | `98`     | `99`     | `100`    | `101`    | `102`    | `103`
`2#11101_`| `104`    | `105`    | `106`    | `107`    | `108`    | `109`    | `110`    | `111`
`2#11110_`| `112`    | `113`    | `114`    | `115`    | `116`    | `117`    | `118`    | `119`
`2#11111_`| `120`    | `121`    | `122`    | `123`    | `124`    | `125`    | `126`    | `null`
